      TO THE CITIZENS OF THE SOUTHERN STATES.

AT this important Crisis, GEORGE WASHINGTON having declined serving as PRESIDENT after the Fourth of March next, and THOMAS JEFFERSON being held up in some of the Southern States as a Candidate for the high Office, I conceive it a duty to make known to you, his opinions  and wishes on a subject the most interesting to your tranquillity, and to your very existence. They are faithfully transcribed, and submitted, without comment, to your own discretion and good sense.

EXTRACT from Jefferson's NOTES on VIRGINIA, written in the Year 1782. PAGE 172."THERE must doubtless be an unhappy influence on the manners of our people, produced by the existence of slavery among us. The wholecommerce between master and slave, is a perpetual exercise of the most boisterous passions, the most unremittingdespotism on the one part, and degrading submission on the other. Our children see this, and learn to imitate it; for man is animitative animal. This quality is the germ of all education in him. From his cradle to his grave, he is learning to do what he sees others do.If a parent could find no motive either in his philanthropy or his self-love, for restraining the intemperance of passion towardshis slave, it should always be a sufficient one that his child is present. But generally, it is not sufficient. The parent storms,the child looks on, catches the lineaments of wrath, puts on the same airs in the circle of smaller slaves, gives a loose to his worstof passions, and thus nursed, educated, and daily exercised in tyranny, cannot but be stamped by it with odious peculiarities. Theman must be a prodigy who can restrain his manners and morals, undepraved by such circumstances. And with what execrationshould the statesman be loaded, who, permitting one half the citizens thus to trample on the rights of the other, transformsthose into despots, and these into enemies, destroys the morals of the one part, and the amor patriæ of the other. For if aslave can have a country in this world, it must be any other in preference to that, in which he is born to live and labour for another:in which he must lock up the faculties of his nature, contribute, as far as depends on his individual endeavours, to the evanishment ofthe human race, or entail his own miserable condition on the endless generations proceeding from him. With the morals of thepeople, their industry also is destroyed. For in a warm climate, no man will labour for himself who can make another labour for him.This is so true, that of the proprietors of slaves, a very small portion indeed are ever seen to labour. And can the liberties of anation be thought secure, when we have removed their only firm basis, a conviction in the minds of the people that these libertiesare of the gift of God? That they are not to be violated but with his wrath? Indeed I tremble for my country when I reflect that God isjust: that his justice cannot sleep forever: that considering NUMBERS, nature, and NATURAL MEANS only,a REVOLUTION ofthe wheel of fortune, an EXCHANGE of situations, is among possible events; that it may become possible by supernatural interference! The Almighty has no attribute which can take side with us in such a contest. -- But it isimpossible to be temperate, and to pursue this subject through the various considerations of POLICY, of morals, of history,natural and civil. We must be contented to hope they will force their way into every one's mind. I think a CHANGE already perceptible,since the origin of the present revolution. The spirit of the master is abating, that of the slave rising from the dust,his condition mollifying, the way, I hope PREPARING , under the AUSPICES of HEAVEN, for a TOTAL EMANCIPATION, and that this isdisposed, in the order of events, to be with the consent of the masters, rather than by THEIR EXTIRPATION."    Mr. Jefferson's wishes on this subject have not changed, for in the year 1792, while Secretary of State, he wrote a letter, containingsimilar sentiments, to a Negro, named Benjamin Banneker, who had, with the help of a member of some Abolition Society, composed anAlmanack, which he sent to Mr. Jefferson. That letter was published in the Philadelphia news-papers, and was as follows: -- "Iam pleased to find, from your book, that Nature has given to MY BLACK BRETHREN talents equal to those "of other colours, and that theappearance of a want of them is owing merely to the degraded condition of their existence, both in "Africa and America: -- I can add, withtruth, that nobody WISHES MORE ARDENTLY to see a good system commenced for "raising the condition both of their body and mind toWHAT IT OUGHT TO BE, as fast as the imbecility of their present existence, and other circumstances which cannot be neglected, willadmit."
   For an illustration of Mr. Jefferson's designs, relative to this subject, see a pamphlet, entitled, "The Pretensions of Thomas Jefferson to the Presidency examined:" -- See also, an alarming work lately published in Virginia, entitled, "A Dissertation onSlavery, with a Proposal for the Gradual Abolition of it in Virginia, by St. George Tucker, one of the Judges of the General Courtin Virginia; with this quotation from Montesquieu prefixed, "Slavery not only violates the laws of nature, and of civil society; it alsowounds the best forms of government: in a Democracy, where all men are equal, slavery is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution."
   If this wild project succeeds, under the auspices of Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States, and three hundred thousand slaves are set free in Virginia, farewel to the safety, prosperity, the importance, perhaps the very existenceof the Southern States.